 
     The Greek Index Project has been designed as an information
access system for Greek manuscripts containing works written prior to
A.D. 1600. The project was initiated in 1971 by Walter Hayes and has
been directed by Robert Sinkewicz since 1985. It is owned and housed
by the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies.
 
     The data assembled by the project have been taken primarily
from printed catalogues of Greek manuscript collections. For this
purpose a microfilm collection of such catalogues was put together
with the assistance of other research institutes. Over a period of
fifteen years the data were extracted from these sources and arranged
in an organized retrieval system. Because of the incomplete nature of
many catalogues further research was done to identify entries for
many authors or works. The system contains four primary files: an
inventory of manuscripts with basic information on each one, an
inventory of authors and another for works, and finally a file that
provides manuscript listings for each authored work. Anonymous works
are treated separately because of the special problems associated
with this area.
 
     The computerized section of the project is stored in an SQL
database on an IBM 4361 mainframe operating under VM/CMS. Special
data entry panels have been written to help assure accuracy and speed
of data input. A set of utilities has also been written to allow a
two-way transfer of data between dBase III PLUS and SQL. This enables
us to use micros for data entry and correction in addition to
offering collaborators at other sites to share our data in an
electronic format.
 
     By September 1988 the entire manuscript inventory will be
computerized (approximately 100,000 records). In addition, the
author, title and manuscript listing files will be available for the
Late Byzantine Period (1261-1453), at least for the authors listed
in the first eight fascicules of the "Prosopographisches Lexikon der
Palaiologenzeit." In the fall of 1988 we will be ready to publish a
first edition of the "Manuscript Listings for the Authored Works of
the Palaeologan Period."  A second edition will be published when the
"PLP" is completed. A "Studia Minora" series is also planned. This
will be a series of shorter publications (30-40 pages each) devoted
to individual authors of special interest or other minor research
tools that we have assembled, such as a handlist of Greek manuscripts
from the Phillipps collection. Two to five issues will be published
each year for the next four years.
 
     If funding of the project is continued, the remaining data
for the earlier periods will be computerized over the next four
years. In the meantime data on authors and works for those periods is
being provided to students and scholars for the cost of the data
entry of the information requested ($15 per hour).
 
     The Greek Index Project is funded by the Social Sciences and
Humanities Research Council of Canada. Support for our hardware and
software installation has been provided by the Centre for Computing
in the Humanities at the University of Toronto through a cooperative
agreement with IBM Canada.
 
Submitted by Robert E. Sinkewicz
Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies
59 Queen's Park Crescent East
Toronto, Ontario CANADA M5S 2C4
</div>
<div>
From: MCCARTY@UTOREPASJohn J. Hughes &lt;XB.J24@Stanford&gt;
Subject: Electronic OED (12 lines)
Date: 25 November 1987, 19:22:11 EST
X-Humanist: Vol. 1 Num. 455 (455)

Some HUMANIST (whose name I have lost) recently inquired about
the electronic version of the Oxford English Dictionary.
According to a report in the CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION
(November 18, 1987, p. B60), Oxford University Press is putting
all 22,000 pages and 500,000 definitions of the 16-volume OED on
three CD-ROMs. The first two ROMs will contain the basic 12
volumes and should be available by the end of 1987. The four
supplementary volumes will be placed on a third ROM, for which no
release date was given. A new printed edition of the OED that
contains 5,000 additional words will be published "early in
1989." A complete revision of the entire work is planned for
1990.
