Having recently returned from this year's conference at the Waterloo
(Ont) Centre for the New OED (topic: large text data-bases), I've
been mulling over various details, theories, arguments, etc, which
came up in the two days of the conference.  One thing which was
of great interest was the tentativeness which seemed to me
to be apparent about the use of CD-ROM for distributing and
using large text-bases.  Publishers seemed a) reluctant to enter the
marketplace with reference material on CD-ROM, because they
felt (based on market research) that there was not a large
enough demand (except perhaps among institutional users, such as
gov't departments or university libraries);
b) curious about what effect the new IBM WORM drive would have;
c) worried about the need to provide new software and new formats for
data to make it really useable in electronic form (that is, publishers
seem very aware that electronically publishing a book is not so
simple as to write the text on a CD-ROM and sell it -- that seems
to have been one idea which emerged strongly from both the publishers'
and the users' point of view during work on the New OED).
 
And the users' community (or at least that part of it represented
in Waterloo) seemed to be a bit ambivalent: they wanted CD-ROMs
because they could be used on micro's rather than mainframes, and
because they offered security and permanence which mag tape
doesn't have.  But they wanted the textbases on those CD-ROMs to be
structured differently from the text in the published reference
works, and they wanted software based on the new structuring to
be provided for information retrieval, etc, and they expected
the CD-ROMs to be cheap:  they didn't seem to want to hear from
the publishers that that latter goal was disconsonant with the
first two, unless there was a huge demand for the finished
product.
 
One former publisher summed it up rather well by saying that
what the industry (publishing) was waiting for was an electronic
best-seller, something with a broad enough appeal to individual
users to cause them to go out and buy CD-ROM readers and whose
particular usefulness and accessibility was enhanced by the
electronic medium in a way that no conventional medium could
approach.
 
I was very interested by all this, and I think I've summarized
fairly the kinds of attitudes being expressed.  Many people,
while not doubting the value of CD-ROM for long term data
storage, doubted its value for day-to-day use, and everyone
seemed to be waiting with great interest to see what would
happen with MicroSoft's CD-ROM of Webster's, Roget, and three
other standard reference works.
 
I'm curious to know what other people think about all this.
Are there HUMANISTs out there waiting with baited breath
for the publication of the OED on CD-ROM?  Do people want
and need textbases on CD-ROM rather than mag tapes? What
do you think?
