Abagail Young's instructive report on the Waterloo discussions,
and her inquiry about our attitudes, provide a good opportunity
to update HUMANISTs about the activities of the Center for
Computer Analysis of Texts (CCAT), in cooperation with the
Packard Humanities Institute (PHI) and the Thesaurus Linguae
Graecae (TLG), as well as others, on such matters.
 
Some TLG ancient Greek materials have been available on CD-ROM
for two years, in two different forms, and have now been
supplemented and updated in a new release. Persons with access
to the IBYCUS Scholarly Computer (SC) system, which is set up to
read CD-ROMs in the TLG format, will know how valuable this type
of material is with the right hardware and software. The earlier
TLG CD-ROM materials also appeared in an indexed version for
accessing through programs developed at Brown (Paul Kahn) and
Harvard (Gregory Crane), with impressive results, although I
do not have any first hand experience with this approach.
 
The most recent TLG CD-ROM (version "C") is set up in the
provisional "High Sierra" format released last year, and it is
the intention of TLG-PHI-CCAT to be "High Sierra" compatible
in future releases with the hope that standard CD-ROM software
can be used to access these texts from a variety of machines.
CCAT is also developing software for the IBM-type machines
to work with the TLG CD-ROM and the forthcoming CCAT-PHI CD-ROM.
Thus far, CCAT has tried to obtain software from other sources
that would work on the new TLG CD-ROM on the IBMs, but has not
found such (it is still early).
 
Meanwhile, CCAT and PHI are producing a CD-ROM of biblical and
Latin materials, plus a wide sampling of other material from
various sources, to encourage researchers to test this medium
of data circulation. This CD-ROM should be available at very
modest cost by the end of next month (December). This disk will
be compatible with the new TLG disk, and thus will run immediately
on the IBYCUS SC (with updated software). As CCAT and other
developers produce software, these disks will be accessible on
other hardware as well. CCAT will also put some of the texts on
WORM disks to test that approach. Further details will be
forthcoming, probably in December.
